**Asgore Dreemurr** ()[1] is the ruler of the
[Underground](Underground "wikilink") and its denizens,
[monsters](monsters "wikilink"). He is the ex-husband of
[Toriel](Toriel "wikilink"), father of [Asriel
Dreemurr](Asriel_Dreemurr "wikilink"), adoptive father of the [first
human](Chara "wikilink"), and the penultimate
[boss](:Category:Boss "wikilink") of the [Neutral
Route](Neutral_Route "wikilink"). While not evil or malicious, he serves
as one of the main antagonists, planning to kill seven
[humans](humans "wikilink") and use their [SOULs](SOUL "wikilink") to
break the [barrier](barrier "wikilink") which traps the monsters in the
Underground.

## Profile

### Appearance

Asgore is a [Boss Monster](Boss_Monster "wikilink") with broad
shoulders, a bulky body, a golden blond mane/beard and two large curved
horns. He wears a suit of armor, a purple cape with golden pauldrons,
and a crown on top of his head. The weapon he uses in battle is a long,
red trident adorned with a flower. Asgore is shown to be the biggest
main character in the entire game. Towards the end of the game, Asgore
appears to be more fat rather than broad-chested.

### Personality

Asgore is a kind monster that enjoys gardening, Golden Flower Tea,[2]
and Toriel's [Butterscotch Pie](Butterscotch_Pie "wikilink"). Like his
son, he speaks in southern slang (most notably "howdy" and "golly").
Before his battle, he offers [the protagonist](Frisk "wikilink") many
opportunities to explore the Underground and is reluctant to fight them
at all; he even suggests that Toriel, the protagonist and himself live
as a family if the protagonist spares him.[3]

As evidence of his role as a powerful leader, most characters in the
game refer to him in ALL CAPS and sometimes in
<span class="red">red</span> text,[4] <span class="yellow">yellow</span>
text,[5] or a combination of both.[6] Monsters in the Underground look
to Asgore for hope, and his plan to collect seven human SOULs is one of
the few things that keep them going. However, Asgore does not want to
kill anybody[7] and feels so guilty that he offers the protagonist his
SOUL to "leave this cursed place."[8] Though he is miserable because he
has killed humans, he feels that it is his duty to his people to battle
the protagonist.[9]

Asgore lives in the past and wants nothing more than to see his wife and
child again, even though they have been gone for a long time.[10] He
reiterates the same phrase in his journal every day, perhaps in denial
that life has changed since Asriel's demise.

Monsters also note that he is bad at naming places, with the names being
quite literal (such as naming the monster's first home in the
Underground "[Home](Home "wikilink")", and naming their new home "[New
Home](New_Home "wikilink")"). [Gerson](Gerson "wikilink") suggests this
may be because Asgore is not the most intellectual monster, with the
smarter member of the royal family as well as the one which was actually
running the city being Toriel.[11]

## Main Story

King Asgore and Queen Toriel ruled the Underground for millennia after
humans sealed the monsters Underground upon their defeat during [the
war](The_War_of_Humans_and_Monsters "wikilink"). Toriel and Asgore later
had a son, Asriel, and adopted the first human to fall into the
[Ruins](Ruins "wikilink").

The tragedy of his children's deaths led Asgore to declare war on
humanity in a fit of anger. He swore to kill any human that fell into
the Underground and planned to use their SOULs to break the barrier and
destroy all humans. Toriel, disgusted with him, left New Home and
returned to the Ruins.

Before the protagonist fell into the Underground, [six more
humans](Eight_Humans "wikilink") fell. They all died, and Asgore saved
their SOULs for future use.

### Neutral Route

![Asgore revealing the six human SOULs before his
battle.](Asgore_Dreemurr_screenshot_revealing_SOULs.png "fig:Asgore revealing the six human SOULs before his battle.")
Asgore greets the protagonist when they arrive in the Throne Room, where
he was watering flowers, visibly taken aback by their arrival. He
comforts them as he brings them to the barrier, giving them several
opportunities to turn back if they have anything left to do before the
fight. Asgore does not mind the delay, admitting that he is not ready
either.

Before fighting, Asgore tells the protagonist that it was nice knowing
them. He then draws his trident and destroys the MERCY button, possibly
to weaken the protagonist, worsening their chances of winning and
preventing the protagonist from sparing him and shattering the hope of
monsters. However, it is also commonly interpreted as him refusing to
accept mercy out of believing he is undeserving of it. Fighting Asgore
is the only way to progress to the ending. Much like with Toriel,
attacking Asgore when he is at low HP deals significantly greater
damage. However, he survives the attack with a small amount of health
remaining and kneels in defeat, talking to the protagonist about his
declaration of war against humanity, admitting that he only wanted to
give the monsters hope by continuing the war, and asking them to take
his SOUL to escape the Underground.

The protagonist is given the choice of killing Asgore by selecting the
FIGHT button or sparing him by choosing the partially repaired MERCY
button.

-   If the protagonist kills Asgore, he dies smiling. Before the
    protagonist can take his SOUL and pass through the barrier,
    [Flowey](Flowey "wikilink") shatters Asgore's SOUL. He tells the
    protagonist they finally realized that this is a "kill-or-be-killed"
    world.
-   If Asgore is spared, Asgore is surprised that the protagonist would
    choose to remain in the Underground and offers to take care of them.
    Flowey appears and finishes Asgore off, both body and SOUL. He then
    mocks the protagonist that they *still* failed to learn that this is
    a "kill-or-be-killed" world.
    -   If the protagonist has already completed the Neutral Route
        beforehand, and in that playthrough had killed Flowey, and
        chooses to spare Asgore again; Asgore begins to mention that he
        would care for the protagonist, but stops himself, realizing
        that his SOUL holds the key to getting the protagonist through
        the barrier. After telling the protagonist that it was what his
        son, Asriel Dreemurr, would have wanted, he sacrifices himself
        to give the protagonist his SOUL, hoping that they find some way
        to free the monsters from the surface. Asgore then fades to
        dust, his SOUL remaining for a moment, only to be destroyed by
        Flowey, who mocks the protagonist for thinking that killing him
        would have made a difference.
-   If the protagonist aborted the Genocide Route, Flowey refers to the
    protagonist by the name of the first human before telling them that
    this is a "kill-or-be-killed" world.

Either way, Flowey steals the six human SOULs that Asgore reveals before
the fight and closes the game. The protagonist proceeds to deal with
Flowey; after Flowey's defeat, the protagonist leaves the Underground.
Asgore's death has a grave impact on the monsters.

### True Pacifist Route

When combat with Asgore begins, it is interrupted by Toriel, who states
how awful it is that he could seek to hurt an innocent creature such as
the protagonist. This uses the same text and hit as when she interrupts
Flowey at the beginning of the game. She then explains that she
interrupted to prevent both Asgore and the protagonist from killing each
other. While Asgore is ecstatic to see Toriel again, he is saddened when
she chastises him for his plan to collect human SOULs, arguing that he
could have gone through the Barrier after collecting one SOUL, but
instead chose to wait and hope another human never came, which he
solemnly agrees with. After that, [Undyne](Undyne "wikilink"),
[Alphys](Alphys "wikilink"), [Papyrus](Papyrus "wikilink"), and
[Sans](Sans "wikilink") arrive and begin conversing, until Flowey
appears.

During the fight against Asriel, Asgore appears as one of the [Lost
Souls](Lost_Souls "wikilink") alongside Toriel. After the fight, he is
then seen in the epilogue, where he is first available for a
conversation along with the other main characters, and later asks the
protagonist if they would become the ambassador for monsters to humanity
on the surface. Asgore also appears during the [True Pacifist Ending
Credits](True_Pacifist_Ending_Credits "wikilink"), trimming a hedge to
the shape of Papyrus's face in front of Toriel's new school.

### Genocide Route

When the protagonist reaches the throne room, Asgore, who was told by
Flowey about their arrival, does not recognize the protagonist as a
human, asking them what kind of monster they are. The protagonist
forcefully initiates combat and depletes his entire HP bar with a single
blow. Flowey then returns to land the final hit and destroys his SOUL.

## In Battle

## Relationships

### Toriel

Toriel is Asgore's ex-wife. Before they separated, they used to be
"insufferable together, nuzzling noses, bein' all cute n' cuddly," as
described by Gerson. The two ultimately fell apart after the deaths of
their children and Asgore's declaration of war on humanity.

After Toriel's departure, it seems that Asgore greatly missed her
presence. A "Room under renovations" sign is put on her room door in
[Asgore's Home](Asgore's_Home "wikilink"), and multiple crumpled up pie
recipes imply that Asgore attempted to recreate the way her pies tasted,
though he could never truly replicate it. This is the inverse of Toriel
continuously making her pie and only having low-maintenance plants in
her home. This is further supported by his reaction to the protagonist
eating Toriel's butterscotch-cinnamon pie during Asgore's battle. After
being defeated, he tells the protagonist he just wants to see his wife
and child again.

When Toriel interrupts the battle between Asgore and the protagonist,
she chastises him for his plan to collect human SOULs and even turns him
down when he asks her if they can be friends again, which makes him
sorrowful. However, after the fight against Asriel, where their SOULs
are saved as one, her aggression towards him seems to cool down.

In the True Pacifist Ending, Asgore can be seen trimming the bushes in
front of Toriel's school.

### Undyne

When Undyne was younger, she met Asgore in person and challenged him to
fight. After Asgore defeated her by dodging all her blows, refusing to
land his own, he offered to train her. When she finally knocked him
down, Asgore was overjoyed, much to the surprise of Undyne. Asgore kept
training Undyne until she became the captain of the [Royal
Guard](:Category:Royal_Guard "wikilink").

Undyne has knowledge of Asgore's favorite type of tea, and the fact that
he often gets marshmallows stuck in his beard when he drinks hot cocoa,
implying that he often visits her home.

### Asriel

Asriel was Asgore's biological son. Asgore loved him dearly, equally as
much as he did the first human. Asriel's habit of using words such as
"howdy" and "golly" likely came from his father, as did, potentially,
his lack of naming skills, having dubbed his flower form
"[Flowey](Flowey "wikilink")."

### Chara

[Chara](Chara "wikilink") was Asgore's adoptive child, whom he loved
just as much as Asriel. Asgore considered Chara "The future of humans
and monsters," as is repeated in the Game Over text, the VHS tape of
Chara's death, and when sleeping on the bed in [Toriel's
Home](Toriel's_Home "wikilink"). He may even have believed them to be
the Angel of the prophecy, as he also states he thinks the protagonist
is the Angel immediately after noting they and Chara have "The same
feeling of hope in \[their\] eyes." In the Genocide Route, Flowey states
that despite him trying "hundreds of ways" to get Asgore to show him the
human SOULs, and never succeeding, "Chara... I know he'll do it for
YOU."

## Gallery

` Asgore Dreemurr tarot.png | Asgore's tarot card as Major Arcana IV "The Emperor"`

## Trivia

![An early silhouette of Asgore that can be seen at the end of the
[*Undertale* Kickstarter](Undertale_Kickstarter "wikilink")
video.[12]](Asgore_Dreemurr_artwork_Kickstarter.png "An early silhouette of Asgore that can be seen at the end of the Undertale Kickstarter video.")

-   His first name is an anagram of the Latin word "Aegros," which can
    mean troublesome, anxious, sad, difficult, or reluctant. His last
    name is an anagram of "murderer" and a misspelling of "dreamer." His
    full name is also an anagram of "Sage or Murderer" or "Guarder
    Remorse" (which could be a reference to him guarding the monsters
    and feeling remorse for murdering human children). Also, Asgore is
    similar to the old Norse name *Asgeirr*, meaning "God Spear." This
    may be a reference to the large trident he wields in battle.
-   When attempting to [name](Names "wikilink") the fallen child
    "Asgore," the response becomes "You cannot." and prevents the name
    from being used.
-   During Asgore's boss battle, he conceals his face by looking
    downward, showing his reluctance to fight. He is genuinely unable to
    force himself to look at the protagonist. His attacks are all over
    the place and only vaguely pointed in the protagonist's direction.
    Even when he backs out for the swipe attack, he is not actually
    looking at the protagonist.
    -   Another interpretation of this sprite is a menacing grin.
        However, given Asgore's kind and sorrowful personality, this is
        unlikely.
-   It is possible that Asgore is the Santa Claus of the Underground
    that leaves presents under the tree in Snowdin.[13]
-   Asgore cannot age until his child has grown up to a few years
    younger in appearance and actual age than the parent. However,
    because Asgore's son, Asriel, is dead, Asgore cannot age.[14]
-   When saving the Lost Souls, the ACTs for Asgore's SOUL are
    references to the boss battle in the Neutral Route (Mercy, Stare,
    Talk) which never took place in that timeline.
-   Asgore's voice can be heard in the Game Over screen, and when the
    protagonist goes back to sleep in Toriel's Home after sparing her,
    killing her, or going to sleep enough times. The lines seen here
    were spoken to the first human on their deathbed.
-   Asgore's overworld sprite features a replica of the [Delta
    Rune](Delta_Rune "wikilink") laid over his cape and connected to his
    pauldrons, but the replica is absent from his battle sprite.
-   Asgore has attempted to make the Underground safer.[15][16]

## See Also

-   [Asgore Dreemurr](w:c:deltarune:Asgore_Dreemurr "wikilink") article
    on the [Deltarune Wiki](w:c:deltarune "wikilink")

## References

<references />
[cs:Asgore Dreemurr](cs:Asgore_Dreemurr "wikilink") [de:Asgore
Dreemurr](de:Asgore_Dreemurr "wikilink") [es:Asgore
Dreemurr](es:Asgore_Dreemurr "wikilink") [fi:Asgore
Dreemurr](fi:Asgore_Dreemurr "wikilink") [fr:Asgore
Dreemurr](fr:Asgore_Dreemurr "wikilink")
[it:Asgore](it:Asgore "wikilink") [ja:Asgore
Dreemurr](ja:Asgore_Dreemurr "wikilink") [pl:Asgore
Dreemurr](pl:Asgore_Dreemurr "wikilink") [pt-br:Asgore
Dreemurr](pt-br:Asgore_Dreemurr "wikilink") [ru:Асгор
Дримурр](ru:Асгор_Дримурр "wikilink") [tr:Asgore
Dreemurr](tr:Asgore_Dreemurr "wikilink") [uk:Асґор
Дрімур](uk:Асґор_Дрімур "wikilink") [zh:Asgore
Dreemurr](zh:Asgore_Dreemurr "wikilink")

[Category:Boss](Category:Boss "wikilink") [Category:Main
characters](Category:Main_characters "wikilink")

[1] 

[2] 

[3] 

[4] 

[5] 

[6] 

[7] 

[8] 

[9] 

[10] 

[11] 

[12] [UnderTale by Toby Fox —
Kickstarter](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1002143342/undertale/description)

[13] 

[14] 

[15] 

[16] 
